# Outcome Task 1.3
  
  **Questions to answer after reading: love, passion, caring and trust**  
1. ‘What Jack knew about building love: very little.’ (p. 179). When Jack sighs and disappears into the mud, drowned by the Cloud’s expansive love and deep grief, has he sacrificed himself for his children? Does he love his children? 
	- Loves his children
	- Unable to express his love towards his children
	- Scared to form emotional attachments - doesn't have the ability to

2. Is it the love and caring of others that transforms Charlotte and Levi, or is it their own determination, resolve and mutual care?  
	- For Charlotte, love and caring from Nicola
	- For Levi, determination to build coffin fuelled by Esk god pelt

3.  Is love differentiated from lust in the novel?  
	- Lust: 2 miners who attack Charlotte and the Detective
	- Love: Nicola and Charlotte - selfless, Louise and Karl

4. Are there characters who fail to express love, caring or trust? How do we view them?  
	- Mr Hough: bastard
	- The Detective: detached, cold
	- Jack: had to learn to love, doesn't come naturally 

   
**Questions to answer after reading: change and transformation**   
1. Is Levi really ‘erratic, selfish and weak’ (p. 219) as he suggests?
	- No
	- Grieving loss of mother, not thinking clearly
	- not selfish - worrying about charlotte but not enough emotional intelligence to help her with grief

2. Has Charlotte really become calm? Will her relationship with Nicola remain passionate?  


3.  Changing and transforming is what Jack does by his very nature, over millennia and in quite biblical ways. At the moment when fire stretches out of coals, ‘without intention or design’ (p. 173), he becomes human and nobody sees him ‘emerge and transform’ (p. 174). Ultimately, he ‘holds a hand over his chest’ (p. 212), looks up into the sky, and disappears.  Does Jack change in his role as father?  
	- No
	- Never really there emotionally for his kids
	- expressed his love by protecting and saving his kids 

4. What do you think has happened to Allen Gibson?  
	- Not much
	- Doesn't transform back to not bird man
	- Probably leaves cave for food idk

5. What purpose did Jack serve on the shore of the harbour?  
	- protecting and saved his children, sacrificed himself for his children

6.  What other purposes does this character serve?  
	- Devastation that fire can cause to people and the environment

Questions to answer after reading: Nature's ecosystems: the interconnection of species with land, water and each other

1. Does Arnott’s novel endorse or condemn hunting, farming, mining and the timber business?
	- Condemns through perspective of Esk god

2. Does Arnott’s portrayal of interdependent relationships—between human and animal, people and timber, animal and cloud— reveal a concern for the preservation of the environment, and of all the species in it?
	- 

3. Or does the novel suggest that interdependence is paradoxical, that nature is on the one hand useful and beautiful to humans and on the other hand dangerous and vulnerable?


4. Do you think the novel suggests there is a kind of war between humans and Nature?


5. In what ways do Karl and the ranger exhibit masculinities that contrast markedly with Hough and Gibson?


6. Do you see Arnott’s novel as embodying the concern that climate change is human-induced?


7. In ‘Iron’, the Esk God is one of many gods including its lover the Cloud God. Arnott constructs Fire, on the other hand, as a flawed human being. Why do you think Arnott might have done this, and what is the effect?


8. Is the author suggesting that cycles of fire and flood are natural or inevitable in Australia?


9. Given Arnott’s reference to the ‘denuded hills’ of Tasmania’s midlands, can we deduce that the author is against the logging of Tasmania’s forests?
Yes, denuded means to strip bare and this alludes to logging of the area.

10. Does the novel draw our attention to the issue of species extinction? If so, how?
Through the Esk god - sorrow about the extinction of the Hunt god, the Tasmanian Tiger. 

11. What views and values in relation to fire are conveyed in Flames?

  

Questions to answer after reading: Personal hate, agency and shifting the blame

1. Which characters are dependable, organised, community-minded or hard working?
	- Nicola
	- Charlotte
	- Karl
	- Mavis Midcurrent

2. Which characters are nasty, threatening or selfish?
	- Jack
	- Hough
	- Esk god
	- Levi

3. Do you agree that the novel portrays ‘control’ as both positive and negative?
	I do agree as the book displays both the positives and negative effects of control through Charlotte and her 'leaking' fire. 
	- Levi's emotions are measured and controlled
	- Charlotte's emotions are uncontrollable and only controlled by Nicola to her own detriment (burns)