# Outcome Task 1.5

Task 1: Read through this list of quotes from the text. Consider the highlighted words - what do you notice about them?  
  
-   “He could not stop them…they ***swamped*** over everything.” p. 39
-   “The cracks I heard in his voice ***swam*** up to his face.” p. 68
-   “…she occasionally seems to lose control of herself….small noises ***leaking*** through her gritted teeth.” p. 97
-    “It dawned over me like a ***crashing tide***…” p. 106
-    “Charlotte could not stop ***leaking***.” p. 115
-   “…waves of wonder that…***washed*** through him.” p. 127
-   “…she drew pleasure from how she could affect others, and when they showed her gratitude she ***bathed*** in it.” p.145
-    “…a rivulet of flames began ***leaking*** out of the side of her mouth.” p. 153

Highlighted / bolded-italicised words are words that can be used to describe water, forms of water, or verbs of water.


Task 2: What idea associations are there with water? Highlight three ideas from the list below that you most associate with water.  
  
-   death
-   ***flow***
-   escape through holes
-   solid
-   ***essence of life***
-   necessary
-   ***drought***
-   birth
-   disaster
-   growth
-   Unstoppable


Task 3: Think about how water somehow reflects your nature.  
   
Arnott usually uses water language to describe how emotions and actions affect characters: “…waves of wonder that…washed through him.” p. 127.  
You should practise this technique so you can use it in your own creative writing. Before you do this, we are going to develop a water vocabulary bank. Create the table below in your books and brainstorm all the action or ‘doing’ words that the water elements on the left can do.

| Water words | Action words |
| ----------- | ------------ |
| Water       | Drips        |
| Rain        | Pours        |
| Flood       | Floods       |
| Waves       | Washes       |
| River       | Trickles     |
| Rivulet     | Spurts     |
| Stream      | Drenches       |
| Drip        | Drowns        |
| Drop        | Soaks             |
| Current     | Sprays             |


Task 4: Think about a recent interesting or intense emotion or action you have experienced - and try describing it in a sentence with some water language. An example is listed below: "Thinking about year 12, anxiety dripped over me, down to the ground. I screamed at the world, a stream of anger gushing from my throat up into the sky."

I felt the panic bubble up through me, engulfing every part of my body. 
