
# 3.3 Textbook Questions

Q1. Provide two differences between summary offences and indictable offences.
	Summary offences differ from indictable offences in that a summary offence is considered to be an offence of lesser impact and is heard by a magistrate in the Magistrates Court whereas an indictable offence is considered to be of a higher impact than a summary offence and is heard by a judge in either a County or Supreme Court.

Q2. Who has the burden of proof in a criminal case? What is the reason for this?
	In a criminal case, the burden of proof falls on the prosecution. the reason for this is the idea of the 'presumption of innocence'. The presumption of innocence ensures that any accused person is presumed to be innocent of any crimes they are accused of. Due to this, the accused person does not have to provide evidence and / or prove their innocence, and as such, the burden of proving the guilt of the accused falls to the prosecution.

Q3. Define the term ‘the presumption of innocence’ and explain three ways it is upheld in a criminal case.
	The term "Presumption of innocence" refers to the idea that in a court of law, anyone who is accused of a crime is presumed to be innocent of the crime until said person has been proven guilty of the crime. In a criminal case, the "Presumption of innocence" is upheld in three ways, including the burden of proof falling on the prosecution, the setting of bail, and the high standard and scrutiny of proposed evidence and the case as a whole. 