
# 3.4 Textbook Questions
Q1.  - 
	a. Describe three rights available to an accused in a criminal proceeding.
		In a criminal proceeding, an accused person has three rights available. These include the right to be tried without unreasonable delay which ensures that said person's case is heard within a reasonable timeframe, the right to a fair hearing which ensures that an accused person's criminal charge decided by a competent and impartial court after a fair and public hearing, and the right to a trial by jury that ensures that any persons accused of a indictable criminal offence is provided the option to be heard by a jury.			
	b. Explain any exemptions or exceptions that apply to each right.
		In regards to exceptions and exemptions, the right to be tried without unreasonable delay states that any accused under 18 years of age "must be brought to trial as quickly as possible".
	
Q2. How does a right to a trial by jury for an indictable offence uphold equality?
	The right to a trial by jury for an indictable offence uphold equality through ensuring that the outcome an an accused persons' case is decided by a wide group of individuals with the intention of eliminating as much bias as possible. 

Q3. What is meant by the term ‘unreasonable delay’, and what delays may be considered ‘reasonable’?
	In regards to the rights of the accused, the term "unreasonable delay" refers to the period of time between the arrest of an accused and the beginning of their court proceedings. How 'reasonable' a delay is dependant upon the complexity of the case and as such is decided on a case-by-case basis. 
	
Q4.  Your friend has been charged with drink driving, and believes she is entitled to a jury trial under
the Australian Constitution. Is she correct? Justify your answer.
	Drunk driving is a summary offence, summary offences are not eligible for the right to a trial by jury.

Q5. In Gray v DPP , how did Justice Bongiorno attempt to remedy the fact that there may not be a timely trial?
	To remedy the fact that the right to a timely trial could not be upheld in the Gray v DPP criminal case, Justice Bongiorno made the decision to release the accused on bail. 
