# Rights of the Accused

In a criminal case, three rights are available to an accused person. These include:
- The right to be tried without unreasonable delay
- The right to a fair hearing
- The right to a trial by jury

### TLDR:
|              Right               | Description                                                                                                                                             | Main source of right                                       |
|:--------------------------------:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |:---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Tried without unreasonable delay | An accused is entitled to have his or her charges heard in a timely manner. Any delay should be reasonable.                                             | Sections 21(5)(b) and 25(2)(c) of the Human Rights Charter |
|           Fair hearing           | A person charged is entitled to have that charge decided by a competent, independent and impartial court, and the hearing must be both fair and public. | Section 24(1) of the Human Rights Charter                  |
|          trial by jury           | A person charged with an indictable offence is entitled to be tried by his or her peers.                                                                | Section 80 of the Australian Constitution and Victorian statute law (including the Criminal Procedure Act)                                                           |


## The right to be tried without unreasonable delay
It is stated by the Human Rights Charter that a person that has been charged with a criminal offence is entitled, without discrimination, to a guarantee that said person will be tried without unreasonable delay. The right recognises that there may be a delay in the case, but that delay must not be unreasonable. The term ‘unreasonable delay’ is not defined, but the reasonableness of any delay will depend on factors such as the complexity of the case and the legal issues involved. For example, it would be reasonable for the prosecution to need more time to prepare for a case involving multiple crime scenes, multiple crimes and multiple accused people with few or no witnesses, as opposed to a case where there was a single incident with multiple witnesses. This right is supported by Section 21(5) of the Human Rights Charter, which states that a person who is arrested or detained on a criminal charge has the right to be brought to trial without unreasonable delay. This is because, under the Charter, people have a basic right to liberty and security, and accused persons are presumed innocent until proven guilty. Therefore, people should not be held for an unreasonable amount of time while they are awaiting trial.

## The right to a fair hearing 
The Human Rights Charter entitles a person charged with a criminal offence to have the charge decided by a competent, independent and impartial court after a fair and public hearing. There are two parts to this right:
1. A competent, independent and impartial court must decide the proceeding or charge. That means, for example, that every person has the right to have their case heard by a qualified and experienced judge or magistrate in an unbiased and objective manner. 
2. A hearing must be fair, and public. Most court hearings are open to the public. This ensures that the trial and trial processes are transparent and not hidden in secrecy. If criminal cases were conducted in secret, there would be no way for the public to know whether laws are applied properly and processes are fair. An open courtroom allows for public and media scrutiny of processes. In some circumstances a court may exclude members of media organisations or the general public from all or part of a hearing. For example, the Magistrates’ Court has the power to make an order that proceedings are closed to the public if they will cause undue distress or embarrassment to a victim in a sexual offence case.

## The right to trial by jury
A trial by jury is where a person’s peers within the community decide the outcome of the case – i.e. in a criminal case, whether or not the accused is guilty. This right dates back to well before the Magna Carta in England, established in 1215, which said that no free man shall be imprisoned except by lawful judgment of his peers. The jury system provides the opportunity for community participation in the legal process, and for the law to be applied according to community standards. The right to trial by jury is not protected by the Human Rights Charter, but rather protected in part by the Australian Constitution, and in part by statute law in Victoria. Section 80 of the Australian Constitution states that any person who is charged with a Commonwealth indictable offence is entitled to a trial by jury. However, section 80 of the Australian Constitution provides only a limited right to trial by jury, because most indictable offences are crimes under state law, and this section only applies to Commonwealth offences. In addition, the Commonwealth Parliament can determine by statute which offences are ‘indictable’. For Victorian indictable offences, the Criminal Procedure Act 2009 (Vic) requires a jury to be empanelled where the accused pleads not guilty to the indictable offence. There is no right to a jury trial for summary offences. If a jury trial is required (i.e. an accused has pleaded not guilty to an indictable offence), then the Juries Act 2000 (Vic) sets out the requirements in relation to the composition and responsibilities of the jury. A criminal jury is made up of 12 jurors. The jury will hear the case and will need to reach a verdict on whether the accused is guilty or not guilty. The jurors must make a decision beyond reasonable doubt.