SAC 1

Nathan Le Brun

I chose to write my piece from the perspective of the character Louise, from the chapter 'Salt', in the novel 'Flames'. I chose to focus on the events that transpired after the death of Karl's seal and more specifically, the period of time that the chapter doesn't cover. I wrote this in the form of a short narrative to try and reflect the change that Karl must have experienced between when the seal died and when Nicola returns, in addition to the original novel being an epistolary.  
For the language of the piece, I chose to try and emulate the writing style of Robbie Arnott, the author of the text. I did this to try and make the reader feel as if they were reading another chapter in the novel. I used metaphors and personification such as the ocean's "watery embrace and rhythmic waves" and the ocean being an "extension of \[Karl's\] very being" to try and replicate the magical realism throughout the text.  I also used water imagery to describe Karl's grief. 
My intended audience for this piece is as an example for other VCE students who are studying the novel 'Flames'. I chose this audience because they would already have an understanding of the context surrounding the piece and would be able to effectively use it for it's intended purpose.  
The purpose of this piece was to explore the grief that Karl experienced due to the loss of his seal and to also explore his connection with nature. I chose to do this through Louise as she knows the grieving character, Karl extremely well.  It would provide an outside perspective of how grief can present itself.
In the context of 'Flames', my piece acts as an extension of the chapter 'Salt'. It demonstrates the lasting impact that grief can have on a person and how it can shape their life.